NESTJS.md, before:


## Description

[Nest](https://github.com/nestjs/nest) framework TypeScript starter repository.

## Setup API endpoint

```bash
$ npx nest g module addresses
$ npx nest g controller addresses
$ npx nest g service addresses
```

## Create model addresses (sequelize-typescript)

To create a model, you need to import the SequelizeModule and add it to the imports array in the AppModule.

```typescript
 SequelizeModule.forFeature([Address])
```

## Compile and run the project

```bash
# development
$ npm run start

# watch mode
$ npm run start:dev

# production mode
$ npm run start:prod
```

## Run tests

```bash
# unit tests
$ npm run test

# e2e tests
$ npm run test:e2e

# test coverage
$ npm run test:cov
```

## Deployment

When you're ready to deploy your NestJS application to production, there are some key steps you can take to ensure it runs as efficiently as possible. Check out the [deployment documentation](https://docs.nestjs.com/deployment) for more information.

If you are looking for a cloud-based platform to deploy your NestJS application, check out [Mau](https://mau.nestjs.com), our official platform for deploying NestJS applications on AWS. Mau makes deployment straightforward and fast, requiring just a few simple steps:

```bash
$ npm install -g @nestjs/mau
$ mau deploy
```

With Mau, you can deploy your application in just a few clicks, allowing you to focus on building features rather than managing infrastructure.

## Resources

Check out a few resources that may come in handy when working with NestJS:

- Visit the [NestJS Documentation](https://docs.nestjs.com) to learn more about the framework.
- For questions and support, please visit our [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/G7Qnnhy).
- To dive deeper and get more hands-on experience, check out our official video [courses](https://courses.nestjs.com/).
- Deploy your application to AWS with the help of [NestJS Mau](https://mau.nestjs.com) in just a few clicks.
- Visualize your application graph and interact with the NestJS application in real-time using [NestJS Devtools](https://devtools.nestjs.com).
- Need help with your project (part-time to full-time)? Check out our official [enterprise support](https://enterprise.nestjs.com).
- To stay in the loop and get updates, follow us on [X](https://x.com/nestframework) and [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/company/nestjs).
- Looking for a job, or have a job to offer? Check out our official [Jobs board](https://jobs.nestjs.com).

## Support

Nest is an MIT-licensed open source project. It can grow thanks to the sponsors and support by the amazing backers. If you'd like to join them, please [read more here](https://docs.nestjs.com/support).

## Stay in touch

- Author - [Kamil Myśliwiec](https://twitter.com/kammysliwiec)
- Website - [https://nestjs.com](https://nestjs.com/)
- Twitter - [@nestframework](https://twitter.com/nestframework)

## License

Nest is [MIT licensed](https://github.com/nestjs/nest/blob/master/LICENSE).

Commit message:

- add normalize address function - implement create address controller - implement create service method - add address to table in database - update read me, to follow up learned lessons from docker

NESTJS.md, after:


## Description

[Nest](https://github.com/nestjs/nest) framework TypeScript starter repository.

## Setup API endpoint

```bash
$ npx nest g module addresses
$ npx nest g controller addresses
$ npx nest g service addresses
```

## Create model addresses (sequelize-typescript)

To create a model, you need to import the SequelizeModule and add it to the imports array in the AppModule.

```typescript
 SequelizeModule.forFeature([Address])
```

## Compile and run the project

```bash
# development
$ npm run start

# watch mode
$ npm run start:dev

# production mode
$ npm run start:prod
```

## Database

To run the database you need to have docker installed.
Run the image and make sure that the port 5432 is open.

Use the following command before running the API: 

```bash
# lists containers
$ docker compose ps

# run container
$ docker compose up -d
```

### Run a query

To run a query in the terminal run this command an the  postgres editor will open so you can run a SQL query.

```bash
# lists containers
docker exec -it delos-challenge-db-1 psql -U postgres -d delos
```

Then you can run a query:

```sqlpostgres=#
SELECT * FROM addresses;
```

## Run tests

```bash
# unit tests
$ npm run test

# e2e tests
$ npm run test:e2e

# test coverage
$ npm run test:cov
```

## Deployment

When you're ready to deploy your NestJS application to production, there are some key steps you can take to ensure it runs as efficiently as possible. Check out the [deployment documentation](https://docs.nestjs.com/deployment) for more information.

If you are looking for a cloud-based platform to deploy your NestJS application, check out [Mau](https://mau.nestjs.com), our official platform for deploying NestJS applications on AWS. Mau makes deployment straightforward and fast, requiring just a few simple steps:

```bash
$ npm install -g @nestjs/mau
$ mau deploy
```

With Mau, you can deploy your application in just a few clicks, allowing you to focus on building features rather than managing infrastructure.

## Resources

Check out a few resources that may come in handy when working with NestJS:

- Visit the [NestJS Documentation](https://docs.nestjs.com) to learn more about the framework.
- For questions and support, please visit our [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/G7Qnnhy).
- To dive deeper and get more hands-on experience, check out our official video [courses](https://courses.nestjs.com/).
- Deploy your application to AWS with the help of [NestJS Mau](https://mau.nestjs.com) in just a few clicks.
- Visualize your application graph and interact with the NestJS application in real-time using [NestJS Devtools](https://devtools.nestjs.com).
- Need help with your project (part-time to full-time)? Check out our official [enterprise support](https://enterprise.nestjs.com).
- To stay in the loop and get updates, follow us on [X](https://x.com/nestframework) and [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/company/nestjs).
- Looking for a job, or have a job to offer? Check out our official [Jobs board](https://jobs.nestjs.com).

## Support

Nest is an MIT-licensed open source project. It can grow thanks to the sponsors and support by the amazing backers. If you'd like to join them, please [read more here](https://docs.nestjs.com/support).

## Stay in touch

- Author - [Kamil Myśliwiec](https://twitter.com/kammysliwiec)
- Website - [https://nestjs.com](https://nestjs.com/)
- Twitter - [@nestframework](https://twitter.com/nestframework)

## License

Nest is [MIT licensed](https://github.com/nestjs/nest/blob/master/LICENSE).
